# First Blog Post: The Field of Cybersecurity
The world of cybersecurity is one of the biggest field I have ever been apart of, and dare I say one of the biggest fields in general.
There are so many different paths you can take and each of them seem completly different. The magic lies in the fact that even though you might start on the defending side, if you ever swapped to the red side you could translate some of those skills and mitigation tactics. Before we move forward we're going to look at the different types of hackers you can be.
## White Hat Hackers
White hat hackers also known as ethical hackers are pretty much the good guys. These security professionals use their skills, usually in a company setting, to find vulnerabilities in networks, systems, applications, and even
physically, then once vulnerabilties are found these professionals implement mitigation tatics to fill the "hole" in their respective places. Some job titles that fall into this group would be Certified Ethical Hackers, Bug Bounty Hunters, and Cybersecurity Reseachers. These are by no means the only ones, these are just a few titles that fall into the white hat field. The last thing we will look at in this section are some common flaws that white hat hackers find/fix:
1. **Injection Flaws** (SQL Injections, LDAP Injections, OS command Injections, etc.): These flaws occure when untrusted data is sent to and interpreter as a command or query.
2. **Cross-Site Scripting** (XSS): This vulnrability allows attackers to submit malicious code to a public webpage. Attackers can do things like steal cooking information to take over another users session, redirect users to another page, usually phishing websites, and much more.
3. **XML External Entitity (XXE) Injection**: This occures when an application insecurly parses XML data, which allows an attacker to manipulate the XML input to then potientally read sensetive code or execute arbitrary code.
## Black Hat Hackers
Black hat hackers are the bad actors of cybersecurity. These hackers participate in unauthorized and malicious activitites to exploit vulnerabilties for personal gain, money, or just to destory and steal stuff. People who fall under this category are cybercriminals, hackers for hire, scammers, and many others. An example of what these people do is the Sony/Playstation hack in 2011. During this the PlayStation Network was hacked and the personal information of 77 million users was leaked. The hack was done by a group called *Random VC*, which was a new hacking group for the time, but they claimed they were responsible. Black hat hackers use the same tatics as white hat hackers to find the vulnerabiltites and then they use tools, like metasploit, to preform the hack.
##Grey Hat Hackers
This is the last group we will be looking at, and this group of people are Grey hat hackers. The hackers fall inbetween white and blck hat hackers. These people may engage in activities that are illegal or unethical but they do not necessarily do it for malicious intent or for personal gain. Some hackers that fall into this category are security researchers, penetration testers, bug bounty hunters, and many more. These hackers use the same tools and methods as the other groups but if they hack illegally they usally inform the company of their vulnerabiltites.
## Overview
Today we learned about three different types of hackers. White hat hackers, the good guys. Black hat hackers, the bad guys, Then grey hat hackers, the mix of both. When looking at hacking we have to take morals into perspective as that is how most hackers operate. There will be daily update to my blog so keep in touch!
